= phone_number

http://github.com/midas/phone_number

== DESCRIPTION

Encapsulates the composed of pattern for phone numbers into any easy to use library.



== FEATURES

* Store a phone number unformatted in a single database field, but load it as a PhoneNumber::Number object.
* Parse virtually any formatting a phone number can be represented with.
* Format strings to contrl output.
* Pre-defined named format strings to control output.


== REQUIREMENTS

* ActiveRecord >= 2.3


== INSTALL

  gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
  sudo gem install phone_number


== INSTALL FOR RAILS

Add to environment file:

  config.gem "phone_number", :version => '0.0.1', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'

Run:

  sudo rake:gems:install


== USAGE

Generate a migration to add the necessary field to the database:

  script/generate phone_number_migration {file_name} {table_name} {field_name}
  script/generate phone_number_migration users_have_mobile_phone_numbers users homee_phone

Call the macro in an ActiveRecord descendant:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    phone_number :home_phone
  end

Set the field equal to something:

  @user.phone_number = '+01 234-576-8901 x 123'

Use the field:

  @user.to_s # (234) 576-8901

Use formats to control the output:

  @user.to_s( '%a.%m.%p' ) # 234.576.8901

Use pre-defined named formats to control the output:

  @user.to_s( :us ) # 01 (234) 567-8901 x 123

Reference the raw database field:

  @user.raw_home_phone # 012345768901x123

Reference the sub parts of the field:

  @user.home_phone.country_code # 01
  @user.home_phone.area_code # 234
  @user.home_phone.subscriber_number_prefix # 567
  @user.home_phone.subscriber_number_postfix # 8901
  @user.home_phone.extension # 123


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 C. Jason Harrelson (midas)

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
